Add labels and annotations reference stub (#2159)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/reference/platform-api/labels/_index.md

---
linkTitle: Labels
title: Kubernetes resource labels reference
description: Overview of Kubernetes resource labels used by Giant Swarm, and their meaning.
layout: single
menu:
  principal:
    parent: reference-platform-api
    identifier: reference-platform-api-labels
weight: 500
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-honeybadger

> last_review_date: 2024-03-08

Reviewer: Doesn't this edit count as review?
```suggestion
last_review_date: 2024-11-27
```

### giantswarm.io/managed-by

Defines which operator is in charge of the resource. Common examples:

- `rbac-operator` on RBAC resources indicates that the operator created these and will reconcile/delete them.
- `flux` on an app resource indicates that Flux reconciles the application.
- A bundle name on an `App` resource indicates that a bundle has installed the App.

<!--
- TODO Found on various resources in MC and WC. Value differs.
    - E. g. `rbac-operator` on RBAC resources indicates that rbac-operator created these and will reconcile/delete them.
    - Value `flux` on an App resource indicates that the App is reconciled by Flux.
    - Name of a bundle on an App resource indicates that the App has been installed by a bundle.
-->

### giantswarm.io/monitoring

This label set on the Cluster resource with the value `false` can be used to disable the gathering of Prometheus metrics for the entire cluster, and id prevents deployment of Prometheus for this cluster.

On other resources, the label serves as a discovery mechanism for metrics scraping. We're replacing this mechanism by service monitors.

### giantswarm.io/organization

> An organization is a key concept in the Giant Swarm platform, used to isolate [tenants]({{< relref "/vintage/platform-overview/multi-tenancy" >}}). This label is used on a variety of resources to associate them with one organization. The value is the name of the organization.

Reviewer: Link to modern docs instead?
```suggestion
An organization is a key concept in the Giant Swarm platform, used to isolate [tenants]({{< relref "/overview/fleet-management/multi-tenancy" >}}). This label is used on a variety of resources to associate them with one organization. The value is the name of the organization.
```

### giantswarm.io/prevent-deletion

Can be set on certain resource types to prevent deletion. See [Prevent accidental deletion of resources]({{< relref "/vintage/advanced/app-platform/deletion-prevention" >}}).

### giantswarm.io/service-type

Description pending

<!--
- TODO Found on various resources in management and workload clusters.
- [`fmt`](https://github.com/giantswarm/fmt/blob/278eb4b3318c454e50f24413e7ef2250159f28d6/kubernetes/annotations_and_labels.md?plain=1#L49) has an explanation.
Value is mostly `managed`

> - also found occurrence `manual` in an [ops recipe](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm/blob/0d16eb4ebb0440608bb1bfd0636d34afa6352cc6/content/docs/support-and-ops/ops-recipes/cilium-rate-limit-issue.md?plain=1#L39).

Author: It's commented out anyway
